Drafted README and code for new mmhost code sample (#1)
HakimTem/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/mmhost/README.md

Reviewer: Please correct the spelling of 'kernal' to 'kernel'

Reviewer: remember to add to DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md before submitting to full development branch

Reviewer: Add an entry to DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md

---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04, RHEL*/CentOS* 8, SUSE* 15; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® FPGAs
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler
| What you will learn               | How to customize Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces in your FPGA IP components
| Time to complete                  | 45 minutes

> **Note**: Even though the Intel DPC++/C++ OneAPI compiler is enough to compile for emulation, generating reports and generating RTL, there are extra software requirements for the simulation flow and FPGA compiles.
>
> For using the simulator flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition and one of the following simulators must be installed and accessible through your PATH:
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition
> - ModelSim® SE
>
> When using the hardware compile flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition must be installed and accessible through your PATH.

> **Note**: Make sure you add the device files associated with the FPGA that you are targeting to your Intel® Quartus® Prime installation.

> > **Note**: This tutorial will not work in a oneAPI fat binary `<PW: SHOULD this SAY 'FULL SYSTEM' INSTEAD????>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note**: This tutorial will not work for a Full System compile. 
```

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")
   
   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4
   
   style tier1 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), etc.

> 
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

#### Example 1: A kernel with multiple pointer arguments
```c++
struct PointerIP{
  int *x; 
  int *y; 
  int *z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      int mul = x[i] * y[i];
      int add = mul + z[i];
      y[i] = mul;
      z[i] = add;
    }
  }
};
```
![](assets/visio-naive.svg)

### Using `annotated_ptr` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces

You can override the default behaviour of a pointer argument by declaring an `annotated_ptr` kernel argument instead.

#### Example 2: A kernel with a single customized Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```c++
struct SingleMMIP {
  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    register_map,
    buffer_location<kBL1>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 
    latency<0>, 
    read_write_mode<read>,
    maxburst<4>, 

>     wait_request<true>

Reviewer 2: We may have removed this now - talk to @tiwaria1

Reviewer 3: Yup, simply remove the wait request property from all files.

  })> my_pointer; 
  void operator()() const {
    ...
    // Kernel code
    my_pointer[x] = y;
    ...
  }
}
```

> As with scalar kernel arguments and the `annotated_ptr` type, you can use the following parameters to control how the pointer is passed to your kernel:s

Reviewer 2: This sentence needs some reworking.

Reviewer 3: Yes, what are you trying to say here Hakim?

Reviewer 3: Maybe just say: The following table describes additional properties that you can use to customize the interface.

For stable, may refer to hls docs and specify why a customer may want to do this. Paul can help with that too.

| Parameter                 | Description
|---                        |---
| `register_map`            | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through the IP component's control/status register
| `conduit`                 | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through a conduit interface 

> | `stable`                  | Guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel

Reviewer 2: The guarantee here is provided by the user. We should clarify that. The compiler needs to do nothing, but will use this information to optimize the kernel. If the user fails to meet the guarantee, then we will have functional incorrectly.

#### Example 3: A kernel with dedicated Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces
```c++
constexpr int kBL1 = 1;
constexpr int kBL2 = 2;
constexpr int kBL3 = 3;

struct MultiMMIP{

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL1>
          })> x; 
  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL2>
          })> y;
  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL3>
          })> z;  
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      int mul = x[i] * y[i];
      int add = mul + z[i];
      y[i] = mul;
      z[i] = add;
    }
  }
};
```

### Interfacing with off-chip memory

Most of the time, a component's interfaces will be subject to system constraints. Assume that the input and output vectors are too large for on-chip memory. Instead, assume a memory system with the following constraints:

* Two banks of DDR
* Data bus of 256 bits
* bursts of up to 8 requests

![](assets/ddr_avhost.svg)

We can make better use of the available DDR bandwidth by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit load-store units to match the memory interface.

> #### Example 4: A kernel that interfaces with two off-chip memories

Reviewer 3: Doesn't match your tutorial cpp file. Make them align and check that for all examples/files.

   | Optimization Report | `make report`
   | FPGA Simulator      | `make fpga_sim`
   | FPGA Hardware       | `make fpga`

### On a Windows* System
This design uses CMake to generate a build script for  `nmake`.

1. Change to the sample directory.

2. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.
   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```

   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ```

3. Compile the design using `nmake`.

   | Compilation Type    | Command (Windows)
   |:---                 |:---
   | FPGA Emulator       | `nmake fpga_emu`
   | Optimization Report | `nmake report`
   | FPGA Simulator      | `nmake fpga_sim`
   | FPGA Hardware       | `nmake fpga`

   > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

> ## Examining the Reports

Reviewer 2: You may also want to point to the example RTL block that we generate to showcase the differences at the RTL level of the iface.

Reviewer: ## Examining the Generated RTL

Locate <kernelname>_di_inst.v in the <source_file>.prj/ directory and open it with a text editor. This file demonstrates how to instantiate your IP component using Verilog or System Verilog code.

<paste example from code sample>

![](assets/basic_avhost.svg)

The compiler will infer Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces for your design when your kernel includes one or more pointer arguments. As with scalar kernel arguments, pointer arguments can be passed to your kernel via a `conduit` interface or your component's control/status register (CSR). By default, pointer arguments will be passed to your IP component through the CSR. For more details on kernel arguments, please see `<Temporary: https://github.com/intel-sandbox/wenkaixu.ip-auth-demos/tree/main/mm-host>`. By default, the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will produce a kernel with a single Avalon memory-mapped host interface that will be shared amongst those pointers. 

#### Example 1: A kernel with multiple pointer arguments
```c++
struct PointerIP {
  // Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel, look at the other

>   // kernels to compare the difference

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Pointer kernel arguments will be passed through the component's CSR. They will refer to data accessible through a shared Avalon memory-mapped host interface.
```
of course make sure the line wraps

  int *x;
  int *y;
  int *z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```
![](assets/visio-naive.svg)

### Using `annotated_arg` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces

You can override the default behaviour of a pointer argument by declaring an `annotated_arg` kernel argument instead.

#### Example 2: A kernel with a single customized Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```c++
struct SingleMMIP {
  // This kernel has 3 annotated pointers, but since they have no properties
  // specified, this kernel will result in the same IP component as Example 1.
  annotated_arg<int*> x;
  annotated_arg<int*> y;

>   annotated_arg<int*> z;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  sycl::<...>::annotated_arg<int*> x;
  sycl::<...>::annotated_arg<int*> y;
  sycl::<...>::annotated_arg<int*> z;
```

fully expand the namespaces

  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

The following table describes the properties you can use to customize how the pointer argument is passed to your component. Only one may be specified at a time. 

| Parameter                 | Description
|---                        |---
| `register_map`            | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through the IP component's control/status register
| `conduit`                 | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through a conduit interface 

> You can use the following parameters to configure your IP component's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces:

Reviewer: what namespaces are these parameters in?

Author: Should the namespaces be expanded here in the table as well? 
It might be not that readable anymore?

| `maxburst<value>`        | 1             | Maximum number of data transfers that can associate with a read or write request. 
| `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the Avalon memory-mapped host interface
| `stable`                 | N/A | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to further optimize the kernel.

These parameters can be used to improve the performance of `Example 1` by ensuring that each pointer points to data in a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:

![](assets/dedicated_avhost.svg)

#### Example 3: A kernel with dedicated Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces
```c++
constexpr int kBL1 = 0;
constexpr int kBL2 = 1;
constexpr int kBL3 = 2;

struct MultiMMIP {
  // Each annotated pointer is configured with a unique `buffer_location`,
  // resulting in three unique Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces.
  annotated_arg<int*, decltype(properties{buffer_location<kBL1>, awidth<32>,
                                         dwidth<32>, latency<1>,
                                         read_write_mode_read})>

>       x;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  using x_props = decltype(properties{buffer_location<kBL1>, awidth<32>,
                                         dwidth<32>, latency<1>,
                                         read_write_mode_read});
  annotated_arg<int*, x_props> x;
```

2. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder.
   ```
   cd <partX_XXX>
   ```
   where `<partX_XXX>` is:
   - `part1_pointers`
   - `part2_single_host`
   - `part3_hosts`
   - `part4_ddr_hosts`

3. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.
   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```
   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ```
3. Compile the design using `nmake`.
   | Compilation Type    | Command (Windows)
   |:---                 |:---
   | FPGA Emulator       | `nmake fpga_emu`
   | Optimization Report | `nmake report`
   | FPGA Simulator      | `nmake fpga_sim`
   | FPGA Hardware       | `nmake fpga`
   > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

## Examining the Generated RTL

> Locate _di_inst.v in the <source_file>.prj/ directory and open it with a text editor. This file demonstrates how to instantiate your IP component using Verilog or System Verilog code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locate `<kernelname>_di_inst.v` in the `<source_file>.prj/` directory and open it with a text editor. This file demonstrates how to instantiate your IP component using Verilog or System Verilog code.
```

sorry i was lazy and didn't format. 

please replace these with real filenames

Author: <source_file> was left in, is this alright?

Reviewer: no, please give a real filename that the user can navigate to.

> # Avalon Memory-Mapped Host Interfaces (mmhost)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Avalon Memory-Mapped Host Interfaces (mmhost) Sample
```

---                                 |---
| OS                                | Linux* Ubuntu* 18.04/20.04, RHEL*/CentOS* 8, SUSE* 15; Windows* 10
| Hardware                          | Intel® FPGAs
| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler
| What you will learn               | How to customize Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces in your FPGA IP components
| Time to complete                  | 45 minutes

> **Note**: Even though the Intel DPC++/C++ OneAPI compiler is enough to compile for emulation, generating reports and generating RTL, there are extra software requirements for the simulation flow and FPGA compiles.
>
> For using the simulator flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition and one of the following simulators must be installed and accessible through your PATH:
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition
> - ModelSim® SE
>
> When using the hardware compile flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition must be installed and accessible through your PATH.

> **Note**: Make sure you add the device files associated with the FPGA that you are targeting to your Intel® Quartus® Prime installation.

> > **Note**: This tutorial will not work for a Full System compile. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
> **Note**: This tutorial will not work for a Full System compile as it demonstrates an IP Authoring specific feature.
```

flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")
   
   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4
   
   style tier1 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), etc.

## Purpose

> When you design an IP component for an FPGA system, that system will often dictate the interface requirements of your IP component. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_arg` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host data interfaces. An Avalon memory-mapped host interface allows your IP component to send read or write requests to one or more Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces. To learn more about Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces and Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces, please refer to the appropriate section of the [Avalon Interface Specifications](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683091/current/memory-mapped-interfaces.html). 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When designing an IP component for an FPGA system, that system will often dictate the interface requirements of the IP component. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_arg` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host data interfaces. An Avalon memory-mapped host interface allows an IP component to send read or write requests to one or more Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces. To learn more about Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces and Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces, refer to the appropriate section of the [Avalon Interface Specifications](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683091/current/memory-mapped-interfaces.html). 
```

Try avoiding the use of "you" as much as possible

Author: I see, more formal if I don't use "you"

![](assets/basic_avhost.svg)

> The compiler will infer Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces for your design when your kernel includes one or more pointer arguments. As with scalar kernel arguments, pointer arguments can be passed to your kernel via a `conduit` interface or your component's control/status register (CSR). By default, pointer arguments will be passed to your IP component through the CSR. For more details on kernel arguments, please see `<Temporary: https://github.com/intel-sandbox/wenkaixu.ip-auth-demos/tree/main/mm-host>`. By default, the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will produce a kernel with a single Avalon memory-mapped host interface that will be shared amongst those pointers. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The compiler will infer Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces for a design when the kernel includes one or more pointer arguments. As with scalar kernel arguments, pointer arguments can be passed to the kernel via a `conduit` interface or the component's control/status register (CSR). By default, pointer arguments will be passed to the IP component through the CSR. For more details on kernel arguments, see `<Temporary: https://github.com/intel-sandbox/wenkaixu.ip-auth-demos/tree/main/mm-host>`. By default, the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will produce a kernel with a single Avalon memory-mapped host interface that will be shared amongst those pointers. 
```

> #### Example 1: A kernel with multiple pointer arguments

Reviewer 4: For each example, please directly mention that the source code can be found in the partx_xxx folder.

```c++
struct PointerIP {
  // Pointer kernel arguments will be passed through the component's CSR. They
  // will refer to data accessible through a shared Avalon memory-mapped host
  // interface.
  int *x;
  int *y;
  int *z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```
![](assets/visio-naive.svg)

### Using `annotated_arg` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces

> You can override the default behaviour of a pointer argument by declaring an `annotated_arg` kernel argument instead.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The default behaviour of a pointer argument can be overridden by declaring an `annotated_arg` kernel argument.
```

#### Example 2: A kernel with a single customized Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```c++
struct SingleMMIP {
  // This kernel has 3 annotated pointers, but since they have no properties
  // specified, this kernel will result in the same IP component as Example 1.
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *> y;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *> z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

> The following table describes the properties under `sycl::ext::intel::experimental` that you can use to customize how the pointer argument is passed to your component. Only one may be specified at a time. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following table describes the properties under `sycl::ext::intel::experimental` that can be uses to customize how the pointer argument is passed to the component. Only one may be specified at a time. 
```

| Parameter                 | Description
|---                        |---
| `register_map`            | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through the IP component's control/status register
| `conduit`                 | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through a conduit interface 

> You can use the following parameters found under `sycl::ext::intel::experimental` and `sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental` to configure your IP component's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The following parameters found under `sycl::ext::intel::experimental` and `sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental` can be used to configure an IP component's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces:
```

| `dwidth<width>`          | 64            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host data bus in bits. 
| `latency<value>`         | 1             | Read/Write latency for downstream fixed-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent. For a variable-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent, set `latency<0>`. 
| `read_write_mode<mode>`  | `read_write`  | Port direction of the interface. (`read_write`, `read` or `write`) 
| `maxburst<value>`        | 1             | Maximum number of data transfers that can associate with a read or write request. 
| `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the Avalon memory-mapped host interface
| `stable`                 | N/A | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to further optimize the kernel.

These parameters can be used to improve the performance of `Example 1` by ensuring that each pointer points to data in a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:

![](assets/dedicated_avhost.svg)

#### Example 3: A kernel with dedicated Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces
```c++

> constexpr int kBL1 = 0;

Reviewer 4: I think that buffer location 0 is prohibited in 2024.0. @tiwaria1 can you confirm if my understanding is correct?

Reviewer 4: Why use constexpr for the buffer locations and not for the other parameters?
Should they all be defined as constexpr beforehand, or should they all be assigned with an integer value in the properties?
Right now, this is a mix of both

Reviewer 3: We technically relaxed that limitation but due to some new late discovered issues effectively yes. Hakim, please make these be `1,2,3` instead of `0,1,2`

> Should they all be defined as constexpr beforehand

We defined buffer locations before hand since they must be used again on the malloc* call. That is not true for the other properties so we do not need to. We do need to specify alignment twice so we could do that with alignment.

Reviewer 3: Hakim, let's talk offline about specifying alignment to malloc* calls

  using x_props = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_read});
  using y_props = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL2>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_read});
  using z_props = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL3>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_write});

  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, x_props> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, y_props> y;

>   sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, z_props> z;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  using XProps = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_read});
  using YProps = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL2>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_read});
  using ZProps = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL3>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::read_write_mode_write});

  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, XProps> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, YProps> y;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ZProps> z;
```

  int size;

  void operator()() const {
#pragma unroll 4
    for (int i = 0; i < size; i++) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

### Interfacing with off-chip memory

If the input and output vectors are too large for on-chip memory, larger off-chip memories can be used. Consider the parameterization of a system with the following off-chip memory interfaces:

* Two banks of DDR SDRAM
* Data bus of 256 bits
* bursts of up to 8 requests

![](assets/ddr_avhost.svg)

> We can make better use of the available memory bandwidth by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit wide load-store units to match the memory interface.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The available memory bandwidth can be better used by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit wide load-store units to match the memory interface.
```

#### Example 4: A kernel that interfaces with two off-chip memories
```c++

> struct DDR_IP {

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
struct DDRIP {
```

  using paramsBL1 = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::maxburst<8>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<256>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<0>});

  using paramsBL2 = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL2>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::maxburst<8>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<256>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<0>});

  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, paramsBL1> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, paramsBL1> y;

>   sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, paramsBL2> z;

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  using ParamsBl1 = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL1>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::maxburst<8>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<256>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<0>});

  using ParamsBl2 = decltype(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::buffer_location<kBL2>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::maxburst<8>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::dwidth<256>,
      sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::alignment<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::awidth<32>,
      sycl::ext::intel::experimental::latency<0>});

  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ParamsBl1> x;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ParamsBl1> y;
  sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::annotated_arg<int *, ParamsBl2> z;
```

Reviewer 4: `using` should be used with PascalCase

  int size;

  void operator()() const {
#pragma unroll 4
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

> ## Building the `mmhost` Tutorial

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Building the `mmhost` Sample
```

> This practice ensures that your compiler, libraries, and tools are ready for development.
>
> Linux*:
> - For system wide installations: `. /opt/intel/oneapi/setvars.sh`
> - For private installations: ` . ~/intel/oneapi/setvars.sh`
> - For non-POSIX shells, like csh, use the following command: `bash -c 'source <install-dir>/setvars.sh ; exec csh'`
>
> Windows*:
> - `C:\Program Files(x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat`
> - Windows PowerShell*, use the following command: `cmd.exe "/K" '"C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat" && powershell'`
>
> For more information on configuring environment variables, see [Use the setvars Script with Linux* or macOS*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html) or [Use the setvars Script with Windows*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-windows.html).

> Use these commands to run the design, depending on your OS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

> ### On a Linux* System

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### On Linux*
```

This design uses CMake to generate a build script for GNU/make.

1. Change to the sample directory.

2. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder.
   ```

>    cd <partX_XXX>

Reviewer 4: Instead of adding two `CMakeLists.txt` files per subproject, please have one top level `CMakeLists.txt` file that selects between the different source codes depending on a cmake variable. Have a look at Kevin's sample to see how to to so.
You can actually copy over his simple cmake file that uses the new recommended template and simply replace the name of the files to be included

   ```
   where `<partX_XXX>` is:
   - `part1_pointers`
   - `part2_single_host`
   - `part3_hosts`
   - `part4_ddr_hosts`

3. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   ```

   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ```

4. Compile the design using `make`.

>    | Compilation Type    | Command
>    |:---                 |:---
>    | FPGA Emulator       | `make fpga_emu`
>    | Optimization Report | `make report`
>    | FPGA Simulator      | `make fpga_sim`
>    | FPGA Hardware       | `make fpga`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Compile for emulation (fast compile time, targets emulated FPGA device).
      ```
      make fpga_emu
      ```
   2. Compile for simulation (fast compile time, targets simulator FPGA device):
      ```
      make fpga_sim
      ```
   3. Generate HTML performance report.
      ```
      make report
      ```
      The report resides at `xxx_report.prj/reports/report.html`.

   4. Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device).
      ```
      make fpga
      ```
```

> ### On a Windows* System

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### On Windows*
```

> This design uses CMake to generate a build script for  `nmake`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
```

1. Change to the sample directory.
2. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder.
   ```
   cd <partX_XXX>
   ```

>    where `<partX_XXX>` is:

Reviewer 4: Will need to be updated after the sample has been restructured

   - `part1_pointers`
   - `part2_single_host`
   - `part3_hosts`
   - `part4_ddr_hosts`

3. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.
   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```
   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ```
3. Compile the design using `nmake`.

>    | Compilation Type    | Command (Windows)
>    |:---                 |:---
>    | FPGA Emulator       | `nmake fpga_emu`
>    | Optimization Report | `nmake report`
>    | FPGA Simulator      | `nmake fpga_sim`
>    | FPGA Hardware       | `nmake fpga`

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   1. Compile for emulation (fast compile time, targets emulated FPGA device).
      ```
      nmake fpga_emu
      ```
   2. Compile for simulation (fast compile time, targets simulator FPGA device):
      ```
      nmake fpga_sim
      ```
   3. Generate HTML performance report.
      ```
      nmake report
      ```
      The report resides at `xxx_report.a.prj/reports/report.html`.

   4. Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device).
      ```
      nmake fpga
      ```
```

   > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

## Examining the Generated RTL
Locate `<source_file>_di_inst.v` in the `build/<source_file>.prj/` directory and open it with a text editor. This file demonstrates how to instantiate your IP component using Verilog or System Verilog code.

## Examining the Reports
Locate `report.html` in the `build/<source_file>.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*. Each `partx_xxx` will have its own report. You can compare multiple reports by opening them in multiple browser windows/tabs.

> Navigate to the Area Analysis section of the optimization reports for `part1_pointers` and `part3_hosts`. The Kernel System section displays the area consumption of each kernel. Notice that the `MultiMMIP` kernel consumes less area under all categories than the `PointerIP` kernel. This is due to stall-free memory accesses and the removal of arbitration logic. The fixed-latency on-chip block RAMs can be accessed with stall-free load/store units (LSUs), and giving each memory access a single dedicated interface allows the removal of arbitration logic.

Reviewer 4: If you want users to keep all the different reports, then they'll need to create a new build folder for each source code (to keep in mind as you modify the cmake files)

> Navigate to the Loop Throughput section under Throughput Analysis, and you will see that the `MultiMMIP` kernel has a lower latency than the `PointerIP` kernel, and there are less blocks being scheduled. This is because the kernel has access to all 3 memories in parallel without contention.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Loop Throughput section under Throughput Analysis: the `MultiMMIP` kernel has a lower latency than the `PointerIP` kernel, and there are less blocks being scheduled. This is because the kernel has access to all 3 memories in parallel without contention.
```

> Observe how the 32-bit LSUs are coalesced for you, after unrolling the for-loop.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Observe how the 32-bit LSUs are now coalesced, after unrolling the for-loop.
```

> ## Running the Sample

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
## Run the `mmhost` Sample
```

flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")
   
   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4
   
   style tier1 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), etc.

## Purpose

> When you design an IP component for an FPGA system, that system will often dictate the interface requirements of your IP component. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host data interfaces. An Avalon memory-mapped host interface allows your IP component to send read or write requests to one or more Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces. To learn more about Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces and Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces, please refer to the appropriate section of the [Avalon Interface Specifications](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683091/22-3/memory-mapped-interfaces.html). 

Reviewer 2: Is there a way to use a live URL that will update with new versions of Quartus? Can you check with Eric or VJ about this?

Author: Checked with Eric, he said we might need to update it for each new version of Quartus

Reviewer: you can replace the `22-3` with `current`. This might break if the document structure changes, and just point back to the top-level.

![](assets/basic_avhost.svg)

The compiler will infer Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces for your design when your kernel includes one or more pointer arguments. As with scalar kernel arguments, pointer arguments can be passed to your kernel via a `conduit` interface or your component's control/status register (CSR). By default, pointer arguments will be passed to your IP component through the CSR. For more details on kernel arguments, please see `<Temporary: https://github.com/intel-sandbox/wenkaixu.ip-auth-demos/tree/2024_0/mm-host>`. By default, the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will produce a kernel with a single Avalon memory-mapped host interface that will be shared amongst those pointers. 

#### Example 1: A kernel with multiple pointer arguments
```c++
struct PointerIP{
  int *x; 
  int *y; 
  int *z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {

>       int add = x[i] + y[i];
>       z[i] = add;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
```

Creating the variable `add` here seems redundant.

};
```
![](assets/visio-naive.svg)

### Using `annotated_ptr` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces

You can override the default behaviour of a pointer argument by declaring an `annotated_ptr` kernel argument instead.

To use this feature, you must first make the necessary inclusions
```c++
#include <sycl/ext/oneapi/annotated_arg/annotated_ptr.hpp>
```

#### Example 2: A kernel with a single customized Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```c++
struct SingleMMIP {
  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    register_map,
    buffer_location<kBL1>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 
    latency<0>, 
    read_write_mode<read>,
    maxburst<4>
  })> my_pointer; 
  void operator()() const {
    ...
    // Kernel code
    my_pointer[x] = y;
    ...
  }
}
```

The following table describes additional properties you can use to customize the interface. 

| Parameter                 | Description
|---                        |---
| `register_map`            | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through the IP component's control/status register
| `conduit`                 | Pass the pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through a conduit interface 

> | `stable`                  | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to furthur optimize the kernel.

Reviewer 2: Should stable be moved to the next table?

Author: I was thinking that this property doesn't require a value to be set when specifying so it should be grouped with this table

Reviewer 2: I like it more in the other table mainly because that would leave just `register_map` and `conduit` which are mutually exclusive here.

Author: Make note of the mutual exclusive nature of the first table, and move the stable argument to the other table

You can use the following parameters to configure your IP component's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces:

| Parameter                | Default Value | Description
|---                       |---            |---
|  `buffer_location<id>`   | N/A           | The address space of the interface that associates with the host. Each unique buffer location will result in a unique Avalon memory-mapped host interface. When `buffer_location` is not specified, then corresponding LSUs will connect to all of the IP's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces.
| `awidth<width>`          | 41            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host address bus in bits. 
| `dwidth<width>`          | 64            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host data bus in bits. 

> | `latency<value>`         | 0             | Read latency for downstream fixed-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent. For a variable-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent, set `latency<0>`. 

Reviewer 2: Is this only read latency or is it both read and write latency?

| `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the Avalon memory-mapped host interface

We can use some of these parameters to improve the performance of `Example 1`. Re-structure the design so that each pointer had exclusive access to a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:

![](assets/dedicated_avhost.svg)

#### Example 3: A kernel with dedicated Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces
```c++
constexpr int kBL1 = 1;
constexpr int kBL2 = 2;
constexpr int kBL3 = 3;

struct MultiMMIP {

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    buffer_location<kBL1>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 
    latency<0>, 
    read_write_mode_read,
    maxburst<4>
  })> x;

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    buffer_location<kBL2>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 
    latency<0>, 
    read_write_mode_read,
    maxburst<4>
  })> y;

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    buffer_location<kBL3>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 
    latency<0>, 
    read_write_mode_write,
    maxburst<4>
  })> z;

  int size;

  void operator()() const {

    #pragma unroll 4
    for(int i = 0; i < size; i++){

>       int add = x[i] + y[i];
>       z[i] = add;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
```
Same comment as above.

    }
  }
};
```

### Interfacing with off-chip memory

Most of the time, a component's interfaces will be subject to system constraints. Assume that the input and output vectors are too large for on-chip memory. Instead, assume a memory system with the following constraints:

* Two banks of DDR
* Data bus of 256 bits
* bursts of up to 8 requests

![](assets/ddr_avhost.svg)

We can make better use of the available DDR bandwidth by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit load-store units to match the memory interface.

#### Example 4: A kernel that interfaces with two off-chip memories
```c++
constexpr int kBL1 = 1;
constexpr int kBL2 = 2;

struct DDR_IP{

>   using params = decltype(properties{
>           buffer_location<kBL1>,
>           maxburst<8>,
>           dwidth<256>,
>           alignment<32>
>           });
>   annotated_ptr<int, params> x; 
>   annotated_ptr<int, params> y;

Reviewer 2: Question to @tiwaria1 and Hakim, is this a simpler use model in this situation: 
```suggestion
  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL1>,
          maxburst<8>,
          dwidth<256>,
          alignment<32>
          })> x, y; 
```

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL2>,
          maxburst<8>,
          dwidth<256>,
          alignment<32>
          })> z;  
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    #pragma unroll 4
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {

>       int add = x[i] + y[i];
>       z[i] = add;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
```

> # Memory-Mapped Interfaces (mmhost)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Avalon Memory-Mapped Host Interfaces (mmhost)
```

## Purpose
When you design an IP component for an FPGA system, that system will often dictate the interface requirements of your IP component. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host data interfaces. An Avalon memory-mapped host interface allows your IP component to send read or write requests to one or more Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces. To learn more about Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces and Avalon memory-mapped agent interfaces, please refer to the appropriate section of the [Avalon Interface Specifications](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/programmable/683091/current/memory-mapped-interfaces.html). 

![](assets/basic_avhost.svg)

> The compiler will infer Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces for your design when your kernel includes one or more pointer arguments. As with scalar kernel arguments, pointer arguments can be passed to your kernel via a `conduit` interface or your component's control/status register (CSR). By default, pointer arguments will be passed to your IP component through the CSR. For more details on kernel arguments, please see `<Temporary: https://github.com/intel-sandbox/wenkaixu.ip-auth-demos/tree/2024_0/mm-host>`. By default, the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler will produce a kernel with a single Avalon memory-mapped host interface that will be shared amongst those pointers. 

Reviewer: please either link to the appropriate doc or Kevin's interfaces overview tutorial. It currently lives here: https://github.com/KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples_wenkaixu_fork/tree/IPA_interface_overview/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/IPAuthoring_interfaces_overview

Since that tutorial is not published yet, please leave it out for now and open a case to Kevin to add a link to this sample once he has published his sample.

#### Example 1: A kernel with multiple pointer arguments
```c++
struct PointerIP{

  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,

>   //look at the other kernals to compare the difference 

Reviewer: please use ctrl + h to replace `kernal` with `kernel` in all other source files.

Author: Should be resolved now, now I know how to spell kernel

>   //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// This kernel has 3 unannotated pointers. All read or write requests that the IP component sends will share the same Avalon memory-mapped host interface.
```
c++ comment style is to leave a space after the `//`

code sample practice is to inherit the coogle coding standards, and make sure to enforce this by running `clang-format` with the google preset.

https://google.github.io/styleguide/cppguide.html#Comments

Also, I recommend [rewrap](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=stkb.rewrap) if you use VS code to help make sure your lines are not too long

  int *x; 
  int *y; 
  int *z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```
![](assets/visio-naive.svg)

### Using `annotated_ptr` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces

You can override the default behaviour of a pointer argument by declaring an `annotated_ptr` kernel argument instead.

#### Example 2: A kernel with a single customized Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```c++
struct SingleMMIP{
  
  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,
  //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 
  annotated_ptr<int> x; 
  annotated_ptr<int> y; 
  annotated_ptr<int> z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

> The following table describes mutually exclusive properties you can use to customize the interface. Only one may be specified at a time. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table describes the properties you can use to customize how the pointer argument is passed to your component. Only one may be specified at a time. 
```

| `awidth<width>`          | 41            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host address bus in bits. 
| `dwidth<width>`          | 64            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host data bus in bits. 
| `latency<value>`         | 1             | Read/Write latency for downstream fixed-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent. For a variable-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent, set `latency<0>`. 
| `read_write_mode<mode>`  | `read_write`  | Port direction of the interface. (`read_write`, `read` or `write`) 
| `maxburst<value>`        | 1             | Maximum number of data transfers that can associate with a read or write request. 
| `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the Avalon memory-mapped host interface
| `stable`                 | N/A | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to further optimize the kernel.

> We can use some of these parameters to improve the performance of `Example 1`. Re-structure the design so that each pointer has exclusive access to a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These parameters can be used to improve the performance of `Example 1` by ensuring that each pointer points to data in a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:
```

![](assets/dedicated_avhost.svg)

#### Example 3: A kernel with dedicated Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces
```c++
constexpr int kBL1 = 1;
constexpr int kBL2 = 2;
constexpr int kBL3 = 3;

struct MultiMMIP {

  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,

>   //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  // Each annotated pointer is configured with a unique `buffer_location`, resulting in three unique Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces. 
```

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    buffer_location<kBL1>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 
    latency<0>, 
    read_write_mode_read,

>     maxburst<4>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    latency<1>, 
    read_write_mode_read,
```

the graphic shows unique on-chip block RAMs, so we can use a fixed-latency Avalon memory-mapped host here

  })> x;

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    buffer_location<kBL2>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 

>     latency<0>, 

Reviewer: see earlier comment about fixed-latency

    read_write_mode_read,
    maxburst<4>
  })> y;

  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
    buffer_location<kBL3>,
    awidth<32>, 
    dwidth<32>, 

>     latency<0>, 

Reviewer: see earlier comment about fixed-latency

    read_write_mode_write,
    maxburst<4>
  })> z;

  int size;

  void operator()() const {

    #pragma unroll 4
    for(int i = 0; i < size; i++){
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```

### Interfacing with off-chip memory

> Most of the time, a component's interfaces will be subject to system constraints. Assume that the input and output vectors are too large for on-chip memory. Instead, assume a memory system with the following constraints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the input and output vectors are too large for on-chip memory, larger off-chip memories can be used. Consider the parameterization of a system with the following off-chip memory interfaces:
```

> * Two banks of DDR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Two banks of DDR SDRAM
```

* Data bus of 256 bits
* bursts of up to 8 requests

![](assets/ddr_avhost.svg)

> We can make better use of the available DDR bandwidth by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit load-store units to match the memory interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can make better use of the available memory bandwidth by coalescing the 32-bit wide load-store units into wider 256-bit wide load-store units to match the memory interface.
```

#### Example 4: A kernel that interfaces with two off-chip memories
```c++
constexpr int kBL1 = 1;
constexpr int kBL2 = 2;

struct DDR_IP{

  using params = decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL1>,
          maxburst<8>,
          dwidth<256>,
          alignment<32>
          });

  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,
  //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 
  annotated_ptr<int, params> x;
  annotated_ptr<int, params> y;
  annotated_ptr<int, decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL2>,
          maxburst<8>,
          dwidth<256>,
          alignment<32>
          })> z;   

>   int size;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  using paramsBL1 = decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL1>,
          maxburst<8>,
          dwidth<256>,
          alignment<32>
          });
          
  using paramsBL2 = decltype(properties{
          buffer_location<kBL2>,
          maxburst<8>,
          dwidth<256>,
          alignment<32>
          });

  annotated_ptr<int, paramsBL1> x;
  annotated_ptr<int, paramsBL1> y;
  annotated_ptr<int, paramsBL2> z;   
  int size;
```

define the parameters consistently. set the spacing however you think looks best

Reviewer 3: `awidth` is missing compared to the HLS example, add that too.

2. For different parts of this tutorial, navigate to the appropriate sub-folder.
   ```
   cd <partX_XXX>
   ```
   where `<partX_XXX>` is:
   - `part1_pointers`
   - `part2_single_host`
   - `part3_hosts`
   - `part4_ddr_hosts`

3. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.
   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```
   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ```
3. Compile the design using `nmake`.
   | Compilation Type    | Command (Windows)
   |:---                 |:---
   | FPGA Emulator       | `nmake fpga_emu`
   | Optimization Report | `nmake report`
   | FPGA Simulator      | `nmake fpga_sim`
   | FPGA Hardware       | `nmake fpga`
   > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

## Examining the Reports

> Locate `report.html` in the `<source_file>.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Locate `report.html` in the `build/<source_file>.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*. Each `partx_xxx` will have its own report. You can compare multiple reports by opening them in multiple browser windows/tabs.
```

> Navigate to the Area Analysis section of the optimization report. The Kernel System section displays the area consumption of each kernel. Notice that the `MultiMMIP` kernel consumes way less area under all categories than the `PointerIP` kernel. This is due to stall free memory accesses and the removal of arbitration logic, both of which come from separating the accesses into their own interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Area Analysis section of the optimization reports for `part1_pointers` and `part3_hosts`. The Kernel System section displays the area consumption of each kernel. Notice that the `MultiMMIP` kernel consumes less area under all categories than the `PointerIP` kernel. This is due to stall-free memory accesses and the removal of arbitration logic. The fixed-latency on-chip block RAMs can be accessed with stall-free load/store units (LSUs), and giving each memory access a single dedicated interface allows the removal of arbitration logic.
```

stall-free memory accesses should be due to choosing **fixed-latency** memories, not just from separate interfaces. Variable-latency Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces should not be stall-free. Please open a bug if you see that variable-latency memory-mapped host interfaces are being classified as stall-free.

Navigate to the Loop Throughput section under Throughput Analysis, and you will see that the `MultiMMIP` kernel has a lower latency than the `PointerIP` kernel, and there are less blocks being scheduled. This is because the kernel has access to all 3 memories in parallel without contention.

> Observe how the 32-bit LSUs are coalesced for you, after unrolling the for-loop.

Reviewer: this claim probably warrants a screenshot, so the user knows where to look
```suggestion
Observe how the 32-bit LSUs are coalesced for you, after unrolling the for-loop.
```

#### Example 1: A kernel with multiple pointer arguments
```c++
struct PointerIP{

  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,
  //look at the other kernals to compare the difference 
  int *x; 
  int *y; 
  int *z;
  int size;

  void operator()() const {
    for (int i = 0; i < size; ++i) {
      z[i] = x[i] + y[i];
    }
  }
};
```
![](assets/visio-naive.svg)

### Using `annotated_ptr` to configure Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces

You can override the default behaviour of a pointer argument by declaring an `annotated_ptr` kernel argument instead.

> To use this feature, you must first make the necessary inclusions

Reviewer 3: This is not needed. It is automatically included by `sycl.hpp`. Please verify and remove from here and the .cpp files.

Author: Yep this is correct and has been verified, removing all references to them

| Parameter                | Default Value | Description
|---                       |---            |---
|  `buffer_location<id>`   | N/A           | The address space of the interface that associates with the host. Each unique buffer location will result in a unique Avalon memory-mapped host interface. When `buffer_location` is not specified, then corresponding LSUs will connect to all of the IP's Avalon memory-mapped host interfaces.
| `awidth<width>`          | 41            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host address bus in bits. 
| `dwidth<width>`          | 64            | Width of the Avalon memory-mapped host data bus in bits. 
| `latency<value>`         | 0             | Read/Write latency for downstream fixed-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent. For a variable-latency Avalon memory-mapped agent, set `latency<0>`. 
| `read_write_mode<mode>`  | `read_write`  | Port direction of the interface. (`read_write`, `read` or `write`) 
| `maxburst<value>`        | 1             | Maximum number of data transfers that can associate with a read or write request. 
| `alignment<alignment>`   | 1          | Alignment of the Avalon memory-mapped host interface

> | `stable`                 | N/A | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to furthur optimize the kernel.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `stable`                 | N/A | User guarantee that the pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel. The compiler uses this to further optimize the kernel.
```

> We can use some of these parameters to improve the performance of `Example 1`. Re-structure the design so that each pointer had exclusive access to a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We can use some of these parameters to improve the performance of `Example 1`. Re-structure the design so that each pointer has exclusive access to a dedicated Avalon memory-mapped agent memory, like this:
```

   cd <partX_XXX>
   ```
   where `<partX_XXX>` is:
   - `part1_pointers`
   - `part2_hosts`
   - `part3_ddr_hosts`

3. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.
   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```
   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ```
3. Compile the design using `nmake`.
   | Compilation Type    | Command (Windows)
   |:---                 |:---
   | FPGA Emulator       | `nmake fpga_emu`
   | Optimization Report | `nmake report`
   | FPGA Simulator      | `nmake fpga_sim`
   | FPGA Hardware       | `nmake fpga`
   > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

## Examining the Reports
Locate `report.html` in the `<source_file>.prj/reports/` directory. Open the report in Chrome*, Firefox*, Edge*, or Internet Explorer*.

> Navigate to the Area Analysis section of the optimization report. The Kernel System section displays the area consumption of each kernel. Notice that the `MultiMMIP` kernel consumes way less area under all categories than the `PointerIP` kernel. This is due to stall free memory accesses and the removal of arbiration logic, both of which come from separating the accesses into their own interfaces.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Area Analysis section of the optimization report. The Kernel System section displays the area consumption of each kernel. Notice that the `MultiMMIP` kernel consumes way less area under all categories than the `PointerIP` kernel. This is due to stall free memory accesses and the removal of arbitration logic, both of which come from separating the accesses into their own interfaces.
```

> Navigate to the Loop Throughput section under Throughput Analysis, and you will see that the `MultiMMIP` kernel has a lower latency than the `PointerIP` kernel, and there are less blcoks being scheduled. This is because the kernel has access to all 3 memories in parallel without contention.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to the Loop Throughput section under Throughput Analysis, and you will see that the `MultiMMIP` kernel has a lower latency than the `PointerIP` kernel, and there are less blocks being scheduled. This is because the kernel has access to all 3 memories in parallel without contention.
```

## Purpose
When optimizing a design, choosing the right interface can effectively improve the Quality of Results (QoR), often without requiring changes to the design's algorithm. Sometimes the system that a RTL IP component will be added to, dictates what interfaces must be used.

This tutorial shows how to use the Memory Mapped Host (mmhost) macros to configure memory-mapped interfaces for kernel's arguments. These generated interfaces will follow the Avalon Memory Mapped (MM) protocol. 

Deciding what combinations of Avalon-MM interfaces your kernal uses is dependent on both 
the desired area and performance of the kernal, as well as constraints from the system 
(i.e., what type of memory is available?, is there contention on the memory bus?, etc.).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no memory-mapped interface macro is specified for a pointer kernel argument, then an Avalon memory-mapped host interface with all default parameters is generated for it.
```

If, like me, you are too lazy to type 'Avalon memory-mapped host' all the time, I recommend using a tool like [autohotkey](https://stackoverflow.intel.com/articles/28779) to automatically sub out `mmhost` for you :)

### Memory-mapped interface parameters

The following parameters are available for configuration:

| Memory Attribute                 | Description               | Default Value
---                                |---   |---
| `conduit`    | Directs the compiler to create a dedicated input port on the kernal for the input | N/A
| `register_map` | Directs the compiler to create a register to store the input | N/A

> | `stable` | Assertion that kernal inputs will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernal | N/A

Reviewer: I would put these 3 in a separate table, since they don't have default values, and they configure how the base pointer for the mm host interface is passed to the kernel. The other parameters control the operation of the mm host interface, and are informed by the mm agent that they connect to.

@tiwaria1: why aren't `conduit` and `register_map` the options for a `base_address_input` parameter? they are mutually exclusive, but this use model makes it look like they can be both specified at the same time. That would be much cleaner, because then the default could simply be `register_map`.

does `stable` have any meaning for a `register_map` argument?

```suggestion
| `register_map` | Pass the base pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through the IP component's control/status register | 
| `conduit`    | Pass the base pointer for this memory-mapped host interface through a conduit interface | N/A
| `stable` | guarantee that the base pointer will not change between pipelined invocations of the kernel | N/A
```

Reviewer 3: This table needs to be updated. It is still written from the macro perspective. It should be written from properties perspective. And yes `conduit` and `register_map` are properties of `annotated_ptr`.

I am not sure if stable has any benefit for register_map, will need to check with Control Flow Team, I'll let you know.

> | `buffer_location<id>`          | The address space of the interface that associates with the host. | 0

Reviewer: can a user specify '0' as a buffer_location? I thought 0 was a special reserved aspace.

Reviewer 3: Yes it can be used. It is reserved only if there are unannotated pointers present. This behavior will have some change after https://hsdes.intel.com/resource/14019295370 is done.

| `awidth<width>`          | The width of the memory-mapped address bus in bits. | 41
| `dwidth<width>`          | The width of the memory-mapped data bus in bits. | 64

> | `latency<value>`         | The guaranteed latency from when a read command exits the kernal when the external memory returns valid read data. | 1

Reviewer: @tiwaria1 I thought we had decided that the default would be 0 (i.e. variable latency)

Reviewer 3: Let me follow up Di on this. Yes I think we did decide to change it but we did not implement it yet perhaps.

The file will have the following entries based on the kernel arguments used in this tutorial:

Example of a pointer argument in the ipinterfaces.xml:
```xml
<global_mem name="1" default="1" max_bandwidth="0" config_addr="0x0" type="device private" allocation_type="host,shared">
  <interface name="1" type="agent" width="64" address="0x2000000000000" latency="16" latency_type="fixed" waitrequest="1" size="0x10000000">
    <port name="mem1_r" direction="r"/>
  </interface>
</global_mem>
<global_mem name="2" max_bandwidth="0" config_addr="0x0" type="device private" allocation_type="host,shared">
  <interface name="2" port="mem2_rw" type="agent" width="64" address="0x3000000000000" latency="16" latency_type="fixed" waitrequest="1" size="0x10000000"/>
</global_mem>
<global_mem name="3" max_bandwidth="0" config_addr="0x0" type="device private" allocation_type="host,shared">
    <interface name="3" port="mem3_rw" type="agent" width="64" address="0x4000000000000" latency="16" latency_type="fixed" waitrequest="1" size="0x10000000"/>
</global_mem>

> ```

Reviewer: why does a user care about this section? remove it, or demonstrate how to use it.

Reviewer 3: Agreed we can remove it - we should instead replace it with guidance to check the HTML reports and find these details there.

A simplified description of the signals that constitute the Avalon signal bus is shown below. A detailed description can be found in the Avalon Interface Specifications Document (ID: 683091, release 22.3) in section 3.2 titled: Avalon Memory Mapped Interface Signal Roles: 

| Signal | Description | Width
| --- | --- | ---
| `address` | Represents the byte address | 1 - 64 bits
| `writedata` | Data for write transfers | 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, or 1024 bits
| `readdata` | The readdata driven from the agent to the host in response to a read transfer | 8, 16, 32, 64, 128, 256, 512, or 1024 bits
| `byteenable` | Enables one or more specific byte lanes during transfers on interfaces of width greater than 8 bits. Each bit in byteenable corresponds to a byte in writedata and readadata | 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, or 128 bits
| `waitrequest` | An agent asserts this waitrequest signal when unable to respond to read/write requests | 1 bit 
| `readdatavalid` | Used for variable-latency pipelined read transfers, asserts that the readdata signal contains valid data | 1 bit

> | `burstcount` | Used to indicate the number of transfers in each burst | 1 - 11 bits

Reviewer: I'd remove this section as it's already in the avalon interface specifications.

### Buffer Location in Pointer Address Bits

> The compiler encodes certain information regarding the virtual address space in top bits of the 64 bits wide pointer address. Below is a table showing which bits correspond to what function

Reviewer: what happens when the `awidth` overrides the pointer address width?

Reviewer 3: You mean if awidth is > 41? That's compiler error stating that only a maximum of 41 is allowed to be specified for addressing the memory.

| Bits | Function
| --- | ---
| 0 - 40 | Addressing within the memory system
| 41 - 46 | Buffer Location information
| 47 | Not Used
| 48 - 61 | Used by runtime layer
| 62 - 63 | Indicates whether a pointer is a global or local memory pointer

Users do not need to encode this information themselves in most cases. The compiler automatically generates logic to embed this information from the buffer location specified on the pointer kernel argument in the source file.

Why is this embedding needed?

> In some cases, the compiler cannot figure out which buffer location a pointer corresponds to, and it creates logic in the generated RTL that inspects the top bits of the pointer at runtime to detect the buffer location and route the memory transaction to the correct global memory

Reviewer: in what cases does this matter? We should include a sample of how we recommend users create code to properly create a pointer in their embedded c code.

Reviewer 3: Same as above: This has been rigorously described in the 2023.2 docs - I think we can remove it from here.

#### Example 2: A kernel with a single customized Avalon memory-mapped host interface
```c++
struct SingleMMIP{
  
  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,

>   //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// This kernel has 3 annotated pointers, but since they have no properties specified, this kernel will result in the same IP component as Example 1.
```

struct MultiMMIP {

  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,

>   //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 

Reviewer: remove these comments

          });

  //Declare the pointer interfaces to be used in this kernel,

>   //look at the other kernels to compare the difference 

Reviewer: remove these comments
